# territorial_communities
Sociology has identified ”territorial communities” as important elements in people’s social identity (Anderson, 1991). What ”glues” these territorial communities together are for example language, shared cultural heritage, or common concerns about the same events. Spatial proximity and direct interaction can but not necessarily have to be constitution elements of territorial communities. For example, children of immigrants might be part of territorial communities by sharing language and cultural heritage without actually living in the old country or by interacting with people living there (Fortier, 1998). Existing community detection methods falls short of identifying territorial communities. Their reliance on geographical locations or direct interaction patterns only map parts of territorial communities while systematically missing the members not covered by these selection criteria. We propose a community detection approach on the social media service Twitter that for the first time accounts for the complete breadth of the sociological concept of territorial communities (Newby and Bell, 1974). We show that the existing techniques, focusing on direct interaction ties or spatial proximity, considerably underestimate the size of territorial communities. In contrast, our approach account for a broader concept of territorial community by taking into account Twitter users invisible to geographical or interaction based selection present in the existing literature, but that belong to a shared cultural space, such as emigrants and children of immigrants. These users express their connection with the a territorial community on the platform through several signals, such as the language of their posts, and through a self-directed public performance of identity. We implemented our approach for the Italian community and detected other user categories beside the ones characterized by spatial proximity (the locals, the majority of total user selection). Around 9% of the community detection belonged to categories that would have not been selected with the existing methods, the largest was composed by the Italians abroad (around 5% of the community detection) followed by local football team supporters, foreign companies who have a business relationship with the countries as well as children of emigrants and immigrants. Furthermore, our methodology shows the value of theory-driven operationalization. As we decide on which signals to include in our community detection approach based on concepts developed in sociological theory our approach illustrates the potential and challenges of doing data science following well-established sociological theory developed in a context diverging radically from the environment of digital communication.
